# Summary of Results
Our predictions showed an overall substantial reduction of hospitalizations in scenarios A and B compared to the no-vaccination scenario C, with a reduction of 58.6% (95%IQR 54.0-71.1) for scenario A and 46.1% (95%IQR 42.1-56.4). Median trajectories of weekly incident hospitalizations for scenarios A and B were overall compatible with those in real data from past seasons, and 95% interquantile ranges captured most data points on the calibration dataset.

# General Model Description
We used the MetaFlu modeling framework, a mechanistic compartmental SLIRS model (susceptible - latent - infectious - removed - susceptible) based on ordinary differential equations and age-stratified contacts. The model includes
vaccination of susceptible individuals, which confers partial protection against infection and hospitalization. Hospitalization incidence was calculated based on infection incidence at the post-processing stage. 


# Explanation of observed dynamics given model assumptions
Our model predicted overall optimistic reduction of hospitalizations for higher vaccine coverage, with significant presence of indirect effects, likely as a result of fixed protection against infection as explained below. 
Uncertainty in the reduction of hospitalizations varied between states, likely explained by our calibration procedure that reproduces individual 
seasons rather than averaging over multiple seasons; we noticed that states with more variability between seasons had proportionally broader confidence intervals.

# Model Calibration
Calibration was done by comparing model-predicted hospitalization trajectories with data from the [NHSN Weekly Hospital Respiratory Data](https://data.cdc.gov/Public-Health-Surveillance/Weekly-Hospital-Respiratory-Data-HRD-Metrics-by-Ju/ua7e-t2fy/about_data) for the 2022-2023, 2023-2024 and 2024-2025 seasons. The state-level NHSN data was multiplied by country-wide age-stratified fraction of positive tests from [FluSurv-NET](https://www.cdc.gov/fluview/overview/influenza-hospitalization-surveillance.html) to obtain age-specific hospitalization time series in each target location.

For each season and location, an initial ensemble of 5000 Model trajectories was generated by sampling values of the basic reproduction number ($R_0$) and the initial number of infections ($L_0$) using Latin Hypercube Sampling (LHS). For each target age group, weekly hospitalization time series were generated by aggregating daily infection incidence into weekly resolution, then calculating the infection-to-hospitalization risk to match observed hospitalization attack rates. Each trajectory was scored using the sum of the _root mean square error_ (RMSE) over all age groups, and the 100 best-score trajectories were selected for the projections.

This calibration procedure was run independently for each season and location, 
with parameter search ranges adjusted as needed to achieve a good fit. The result was an ensemble of 300 tuples of $(R_0, L_0)$ parameter values, every 100 representing the calibration from one season.

# Model Assumptions
## Immunity assumptions

### Number/type of immune classes considered
There were 3 classes of immunity in our model:
- Immunity from natural infection only: R (removed)
- Immunity from vaccination only: S_V (susceptible-vaccinated)
- Immunity from vaccination and natural infection: R_V (removed-vaccinated)

### Initial proportion of population with residual immunity from previous infections and previous seasonal vaccinations at the start of the 2025-26 season. 
Since residual immunity is embedded in the estimates of the reproduction number and hospitalization risk, the model is initialized with no initially immune individuals. 
This is equivalent to stating that all individuals carry some degree of partial protection and differences by age groups are accounted for in the estimated hospitalization risks.

### How is variability in this parameter engineered, if any?
N/A

### Waning immunity throughout the season (yes, no, differs for vaccination and natural infection)
Yes, the model accounts for waning immunity from natural infection only. Individuals can move from the _removed_ to the _susceptible_ compartments with a constant rate of 1 / (365 days). Vaccination provides a partial protection ("leaky mechanism") that remains constant throughout a single season. 

## Details on Influenza Strain(s)
### Number of strains/subtypes included in model
Single-strain model.

### Strain(s) specifications (immune escape, transmissibility)
N/A

### Are interactions between strains/subtypes implicitly modeled?
Any multi-strain dynamics is implicitly incorporated.

## Seasonality implementation
No explicit seasonal forcing in the parameters was considered, a the model achieved good fit without this ingredient.

## Initial Conditions
Each simulation was initialized with a given number $L_0$ of latent individuals, distributed among all ages from 0 to 99 following expected infection attack rates, as estimated from a sample run of the simulation with fixed parameters. All other individuals were initialized in the susceptible compartment (following the partial immunity assumption as explained above).  

### Details on circulating strains at the start of the projection period
N/A

## Non-pharmaceutical interventions (NPIs)
No NPIs were implemented in the model, which assumes they are embedded in the estimated reproduction number.

## Age Group Variability
### No of age groups
The number of age groups depends on the scope:
- For the model simulation, 100 age groups are used – Individual ages from 0 to 99 years.
- For age-structured contacts, 18 age groups were used, following [Mistry et al. 2021](https://www.nature.com/articles/s41467-020-20544-y) – Groups of 5 years up to 85: [0-4, 5-10, ..., 80-84, 85+].

### Age-stratification differences (susceptibility, vaccine effectiveness, waning)
Only age-stratified contacts from [Mistry et al. 2021](https://www.nature.com/articles/s41467-020-20544-y) and age-specific hospitalization risks were used. No other heterogeneities between ages were considered.

## State-level Variability
### State-stratification details (prior immunity, vaccine coverage)
Vaccine coverage followed the 2024-2025 levels and scenario assumptions in each state as provided by the hub.

## Vaccine Effectiveness
### VE against infection (by age, if relevant)
Assumed constant at 30% for all ages.

### VE against mortality (by age, if relevant)
N/A

### VE against transmission (by age, if relevant)
Not assumed in the model.

### Is the vaccine modeled a leaky or all-of-nothing (if relevant)
Vaccine confers partial protection against infection and hospitalization. 

### Summarize how uncertainty is generated within a single scenario. 1. Is there resampling of model parameters, and if so which parameters? 2. Is there additional stochasticity in the model, beyond parameter sampling?
Uncertainty was introduced in the sampling of parameters during calibration. 
Since the model trajectories are deterministic, no other sources of stochasticity
were in effect.

## Other Model Assumptions
N/A
